The 2013-2014 school year was the ninth in GO's organizational history. Each year the program has expanded in some fashion. In February of 2014 GO initiated tutoring at Caroline School, the seventh of the eight ICSD elementary schools. At the GO board of directors meeting in June 2014 approval was granted to extend tutoring to Northeast School, the eighth and last elementary school in the district.

During the 2014-2015 school year GO tutors will provide one-on-one tutoring help for approximately 70 low-income ICSD students in grades 2-8 with a staff of about 65 tutors. The strength of GO continues to be the individual tutoring relationship formed between each tutor and student. Initially, GO tutors are thoughtfully paired with their student by the building liaison at each school. Most tutors spend considerable time planning for and reflecting upon each tutoring session.

Many tutoring relationships develop into mentoring relationships in which the students come to rely upon their tutors to provide guidance, direction and inspiration. To keep tutors aware of current educational trends, GO administration provides specialized training for tutors in specific curriculum areas. In 2013-14 math training was provided on three occasions throughout the year.

A highlight of the past year was the nine-minute documentary about GO made by local film maker, Peter Carroll. Donating his own time to interview tutors, a GO parent, the GO director and the superintendent of schools, Mr. Carroll, wove a narrative about GO through the voices of participants. The short film tells the story of GO in a compelling manner. It has already been used to help persuade potential corporate sponsors to back the program. The DVD has also been used in several grant packages and will be featured on the GO website.

As GO has evolved as an organization it has continued to move in a direction of sustaining itself. To that means, GO has been seeking corporate sponsors in the past six months. So far, GO has three corporate sponsors who have contributed over $7,500 in sponsorship funding. In the coming months GO will continue to seek more corporate sponsors.

GO moves into the next school year with high hopes. GO tutors are happy, satisfied with their work and proud of what they have accomplished. Parents and classroom teachers have consistently told our tutors that we are helping their children. Contributions from private donors, foundations and corporations have been better than ever. We are optimistic that the best for GO is yet to come.