The 2014-2015 year was an overwhelming success for Golden Opportunity. This year more students benefited from tutoring than ever before, more funds were raised than during any other year, a paid administrative position was funded for the first time and the Board of Directors functioned as a more efficient, cohesive and productive unit than it had been in years past. As GO completes its first decade of service, there is a much to reflect on with a sense of accomplishment and pride.

Last year 70 students received expert tutoring from 65 full time tutors in grades two through eight at eight elementary and two middle schools. There were also eight substitute tutors on the GO roster. The past school year marked the first year of tutoring at Northeast Elementary School, the last of the eight elementary schools to join GO. Four new students received one-on-one help at this school as tutoring proceeded seamlessly at this new venue. As in the past, the strength of GO has once again been the organizational structure of the program marked by strong building liaisons in each school overseeing and managing problems along the way, before they develop into serious issues.

Over the past twelve months the GO Board of Directors has undertaken a significant workload in creating a more professional profile for the organization. The fundraising and marketing committee worked tirelessly to overhaul the outdated mailing campaign by creating new brochures, mailers and envelopes and doubling the mailing list, all to great effect. The grant writing committee's diligent work paid benefits when two unexpected grants came through in midyear. Members of the Just Be Cause Silent Auction committee pulled together a highly professional and profitable display at the GO summer benefit. With a new board chairman running meetings, setting agendas and chairing meetings, the managing director is freer to focus on administrative issues. More than at any juncture in the history of GO, the board of directors has become a working body of dedicated members, each contributing something to the mix.

In conclusion, I am pleased to say that GO has continued to grow in a variety of ways. As in the past, the organization has grown cautiously and with great consideration and care about how it has expanded and moved forward. Our greatest concern has always been to help the children whom we serve. Based on the feedback we receive from parents, guardians, teachers, principals, students, tutors and the superintendent, we have been very successful. 