During my tenure as the director it has become clear to me that the GO organizational skills have steadily improved and we have fine-tuned the management of our systems. GO has become extremely skilled at providing high quality tutoring and mentoring services for students in grades one through eight for many reasons. One reason we have succeeded is that GO tutors stay up-to-date with changes in the curriculum. When the elementary schools incorporated the new Singapore Math Program, all GO elementary tutors were required to attend Singapore training sessions before the start of tutoring. Then, based on what GO administration was hearing from tutors in the field, we asked math expert Ann Caren to offer extra Singapore training at our January meeting. Finally, in response to the positive reaction to her mid-year work, we brought Ann back for an additional math session for elementary tutors in April.

At the middle school level, beginning this school year (2013-2014), retired middle school math teacher and GO tutor, Dick Lajza, will be offering one-on-one tutoring to GO tutors who need catch-up help themselves. GO will be paying the tutors and Dick for however much time is needed to get them to a place where they feel competent teaching middle school math. In addition, based on students' low test performance in class and on standardized tests, Dick will be offering extra math tutorials for small groups of GO middle school students on GO's off days, Mondays and Wednesdays.

As GO Director I communicate with Ithaca City School District administrators Matt Landahl, Chief Elementary School Officer and Jason Trumble, Chief Secondary Officer, and ask them to keep me current on changes in curriculum and workshops that GO tutors can be considered to attend. The Ithaca School District has been generous in sharing its staff development resources with GO for the betterment of our tutors and the ICSD students.

Over the past year individual GO elementary schools met two to three times each for “sharing sessions.” Tutors met in small groups at their schools and discussed how their individual tutoring was going or talked specifically about previously chosen topics such as math or reading comprehension.  These sessions were extremely popular and helped foster a sense of community at each school. They also served as problem solving sessions. This year we hope to meet across the GO schools by grade level.

With a large number of new tutors on board last year Assistant Director Ann Halpern and I personally called each new tutor in November to check in on them. We also asked building liaisons to make a concerted effort to mentor new tutors and help them have a smooth start.

In the late spring documentary filmmaker Peter Carroll approached GO and asked if he could volunteer his time to make a short movie about the organization featuring a number of tutor/student pairs to tell the story. Peter and I visited with about eight pairs as possible subjects for the endeavor. The project will begin in earnest this fall and will be a yearlong venture with a projected release time of early fall 2014.

Another significant event in the history of GO is that the composition of the board of directors has dramatically changed. In its first eight years the GO boards have been primarily composed of educators. While these boards have helped GO grow as a strong tutoring and mentoring program, the members had very little business experience. However, in the past three months GO has added seven new board members and two college advisors to its board. The new members are people from the business community:  a certified public accountant, a financial wealth advisor, a former marketing executive, a physician, a stay-at-home mom with a financial background, a marriage and family therapist, an operations management specialist a business school major (intern) and a Human Ecology Professor and a Coordinator of Field Experiences in Education. With the addition of board members with a business background GO hopes to raise its profile in the community, build an image branding campaign and generate a more effective fund raising program.

Last year GO tutored as many as 62 students with 52 tutors.  There were certainly areas that needed improvement. Good communication between tutors and teachers is sometimes lacking and in need of improvement. Teaching and tutoring is a people business and there are many personalities involved so there is a great variety of styles and differences in tone and communication skills. Every year the importance of communication with classroom teachers is strongly emphasized but it continues to be a difficult problem for our tutors; we will continue to work at it. Perhaps more support from principals would be useful in this area. At this time, however, the plusses far outweigh the minuses and GO moves into its ninth year ready, willing and able to help Ithaca's low-income students.